---
layout: post
title: Schedule Jekyll Posts for Publication
tags: [jekyll]
---

Since posts on this Jekyll powered blog are short and very much task
focussed they tend to come in fits and starts. Here's how to stagger
their publication.

## Control the future ##

The _drafts folder is a great place for work in progress, but
you still need to manually move content from here into the
_posts folder when complete. What we really need is a way to
control publication date. Fortunately Jekyll provides a way to do
this.

Open up your _config.yml file and add future: false. Now
whenever you write a post with a filename that has a date in the
future it will not be generated by Jekyll.

## TimeZone

The publication time is UTC by default. If you want to work to a
different timezone simply add a timezone to your _config.yml file. You
can find a list of valid time zones on Wikipedia. In my case I am on
Pacific Time and so my _config.yml entry is:

{% highlight yaml %}
timezone: America/Los_Angeles
{% endhighlight %}

## Need finer control?

If you need even finer control over when posts are published you can
add precise times to the Front Matter.  A date here overrides the date
from the name of the post. It should be specified in the format
YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS +/-TTTT; where hours, minutes, seconds, and timezone
offset are optional. For example:

{% highlight yaml %}
date: 2015-07-21 08:15:00
{% endhighlight %}


## Open Questions ##

  * When the site is published on GitHub pages will the future pages
    be published automatically? That is, will GitHub pick up the pages
    even without a commit triggering a build?