_drafts/docker_cleanup_commands.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Docker Cleanup Commands
tags: [docker]
---

FIXME: rewrite below, not my content (credit to https://www.calazan.com/docker-cleanup-commands/)

I've been working quite a bit with Docker these last few weeks and one thing that I found really annoying was all these unused containers and images taking up precious disk space.

I wish Docker has a 'docker clean' command that would delete stopped containers and untagged images. Perhaps sometime in the near future as the project is very active. But for the time being, these commands should do the job.

Kill all running containers
docker kill $(docker ps -q)


Delete all stopped containers (including data-only containers)
docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)


Delete all 'untagged/dangling' (<none>) images
docker rmi $(docker images -q -f dangling=true)

Delete ALL images
docker rmi $(docker images -q)

It might also be useful to create bash aliases for these commands, for example:
# ~/.bash_aliases

# Kill all running containers.
alias dockerkillall='docker kill $(docker ps -q)'

# Delete all stopped containers.
alias dockercleanc='printf "\n>>> Deleting stopped containers\n\n" && docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)'

# Delete all untagged images.
alias dockercleani='printf "\n>>> Deleting untagged images\n\n" && docker rmi $(docker images -q -f dangling=true)'

# Delete all stopped containers and untagged images.
alias dockerclean='dockercleanc || true && dockercleani'





Teddy Martin  





This is my favorite cleanup command. Just set search term to the common phrase. GB is a good one for cleaning up big containers.

docker rmi $(docker images | grep ${search_term} | grep -o -E " [0-9,a-f]{12} ")

To kill al stopped or exited containers, you can try `docker rm $(docker ps -f status=exited -q)`

Commit message:

add some docker-machine cleanup commands

_drafts/docker_cleanup_commands.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Docker Cleanup Commands
tags: [docker]
---

FIXME: rewrite below, not my content (credit to https://www.calazan.com/docker-cleanup-commands/)

I've been working quite a bit with Docker these last few weeks and one thing that I found really annoying was all these unused containers and images taking up precious disk space.

I wish Docker has a 'docker clean' command that would delete stopped containers and untagged images. Perhaps sometime in the near future as the project is very active. But for the time being, these commands should do the job.

# Docker cleanup commands

Kill all running containers
docker kill $(docker ps -q)


Delete all stopped containers (including data-only containers)
docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)


Delete all 'untagged/dangling' (<none>) images
docker rmi $(docker images -q -f dangling=true)

Delete ALL images
docker rmi $(docker images -q)

It might also be useful to create bash aliases for these commands, for example:
# ~/.bash_aliases

# Kill all running containers.
alias dockerkillall='docker kill $(docker ps -q)'

# Delete all stopped containers.
alias dockercleanc='printf "\n>>> Deleting stopped containers\n\n" && docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)'

# Delete all untagged images.
alias dockercleani='printf "\n>>> Deleting untagged images\n\n" && docker rmi $(docker images -q -f dangling=true)'

# Delete all stopped containers and untagged images.
alias dockerclean='dockercleanc || true && dockercleani'

This is my favorite cleanup command. Just set search term to the common phrase. GB is a good one for cleaning up big containers.

docker rmi $(docker images | grep ${search_term} | grep -o -E " [0-9,a-f]{12} ")

To kill al stopped or exited containers, you can try `docker rm $(docker ps -f status=exited -q)`

# Using a Garbage Collector

FIXME: rewrite this section with credit to http://sirupsen.com/production-docker/

Every major deployment of Docker ends up writing a garbage collector to remove old images from hosts. Various heuristics are used, such as removing images older than x days, and enforcing at most y images present on the host. Spotify recently open-sourced theirs. We wrote our own a long time ago as well. I can understand how it can be tough to design a predictable UI for this, but it’s absolutely needed in core. Most people discover their need by accident when their production boxes scream for space. Eventually you’ll run into the same image for the Docker registry overflowing with large images, however, that problem is on the distribution roadmap.

Spotify docker-gc https://github.com/spotify/docker-gc

# Docker-machine cleanup command

## Force remove all docker-machines
docker-machine rm -f $(docker-machine ls -q)
